# recsys-sharechat

## Introduction
The archive contains the dataset for Sharechat RecSys Challenge 2023. The data set consists of records that capture user and ad features (categorical, binary, numerical) and whether a click and/or install was generated by the user. It should be noted that in the case of online advertising, it is possible that a user has viewed an ad and then didn’t click on the ad and directly installed the underlying application. The implication of this behavior is that we have records where there is no click but there is an install.

To generate the training and test data, we considered the ad serving data for 22 consecutive dates. The first 21 days form the basis for training data and the 22nd day data is used to generate test data. From this base data, we created impression records, which implies that an ad was viewed by a user. We annotated this data with two fields, is_clicked and is_install, to denote whether there was a click and install done by the user. We can subdivide the whole data set into four non-overlapping subsets using the values of (is_clicked, is_installed) as follows:
1. (0, 0) corresponds to impressions where there were neither clicks nor installs
2. (1, 0) corresponds to impressions which resulted in a click but no install
3. (0, 1) corresponds to impressions where user didn’t clicked but installed the app
4. (1, 1) corresponds to impressions where the user performed a click followed by an install of the app.

To keep the dataset within manageable size and to safeguard the confidential information around click through rates, conversion (install) rates, we differentially downsamples the records corresponding to four subsets above.

## Task
The task of the challenge is to predict is_clicked and is_installed for the records in the test set.

## Dataset
The dataset corresponds to roughly 10M random users who visited the ShareChat + Moj app over three months. We have sampled each user's activity to generate 10 impressions corresponding to each user. Our target variable is whether there was an install for an app by the user or not.

- To represent a user, several features are provided:
   - Demographic features: These include age, gender, and geographic location from where the user is accessing the Sharechat/Moj app. The sampling of the users in (1) is done such that we have an approximately uniform distribution of users across the demographic features. The user's location is hashed to a 32-bit to anonymize the data.
   - Content preference embeddings: These embeddings are trained based on the users' consumption of the various non-ad content on the Sharechat/Moj app.
   - App affinity embeddings: These embeddings are trained based on the past apps installed by the user on our platform.
- We also have features corresponding to ads
   - Ad categorical features: These features represent different characteristics of an ad, including the size of the ad, the category of the ad etc. The features are hashed to 32-bit to anonymize the data
   - Ad embedding: These represent the actual video/image content of the ad.
- To capture the historical interactions between users and ads, we also provide
   - Count features: These features represent the user interaction with ads, advertisers, and categories of advertisers over different lengths of a time window
- Every row of the data has an associated numeric id and represents an ad impression shown to the user and whether it resulted in a click on the ad and subsequently an install or not.
- We do not provide the semantics of the individual features.
- The training data consists of subsampled impressions/clicks/installs from the past 2 weeks and aims to predict the probability of install for the 15th day.

## Contents of the Archive
The archive contains two folders and the README file (this file). The train folder contains 30 files which represent the training data and the test folder contains 1 file which represents the test data. The files are tab separated.

### Training Data:
There are multiple files under the train folder. Each line of the file denotes one impression record. Each file has the following format:

1. The first row is the header row that contains names f_0 to f_79 followed by is_clicked, is_installed.
2. Each line consists of different columns that are tab separated.
3. The data types of different columns are:
   a. RowId(f_0)
   b. Date(f_1)
   c. Categorical features(f_2 to f_32)
   d. Binary features(f_33 to f_41)
   e. Numerical features(f_42 to f_79)
   f. Labels(is_clicked, is_installed)
4. Some of the features may be null, denoted by empty string for the corresponding feature in the tab seperated line
 corresponding to that record

### Test Data:
There is a single file in the test folder. The file has identical format as train folder files with the exception that the
two columns (is_clicked, is_installed) are not present

### Submission Format:
The format for the submission file should contain three tab separated columns representing RowId correspondiㄒ
lines in the test data and the corresponding prediction for is_clicked, is_installed.
